rules/global/command-execution.md, before:

# Workflow and command execution

- Do not add wrappers or pipes to commands unless the user explicitly asks.
- Prefer repository-standard scripts/commands (package.json scripts, README instructions).
- Reproduce reported command issues by running the same command (or closest equivalent) before proposing fixes.
- Avoid interactive git prompts by using --no-edit or setting GIT_EDITOR=true.
- If elevated privileges are required, use sudo where available; otherwise run as Administrator.
- Keep changes scoped to affected repositories; when shared modules change, update consumers and verify at least one.
- If no branch is specified, work on the current branch; direct commits to main/master are allowed.
- After addressing PR review feedback, resolve the corresponding review thread(s) before concluding; if you lack permission, state it explicitly.
- After pushing fixes for PR review feedback, re-request review only from reviewer(s) who posted the addressed feedback in the current round.
- Do not re-request review from reviewers (including AI reviewers) who did not post addressed feedback, or who already indicated no actionable issues.
- If no applicable reviewer remains, ask who should review next.
- When Codex and/or Copilot review bots are configured for the repo, trigger re-review only for the bot(s) that posted addressed feedback.
- For Codex re-review (only when applicable): comment `@codex review` on the PR.
- For Copilot re-review (only when applicable): use `gh api` to remove+re-request the bot reviewer `copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]` (do not rely on `gh pr edit --add-reviewer Copilot`).
  - Remove: `gh api --method DELETE /repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr}/requested_reviewers -f "reviewers[]=copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]"`
  - Add: `gh api --method POST /repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr}/requested_reviewers -f "reviewers[]=copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]"`
- After completing a PR, merge it, sync the target branch, and delete the PR branch locally and remotely.
- Agent platforms have different execution capabilities (sandboxing, network access, push permissions). Do not assume capabilities beyond what the current platform provides; fail explicitly when a required capability is unavailable.
- When handling GitHub notifications, use `DELETE /notifications/threads/{id}` (HTTP 204) to mark them as **done** (removes from inbox/moves to Done tab). Do NOT use `PATCH /notifications/threads/{id}` (marks as read but leaves in inbox). After processing notifications, bulk-delete any remaining read-but-not-done notifications with the same DELETE API.

Commit message:

rules: add review preflight guidance

rules/global/command-execution.md, after:

# Workflow and command execution

- Do not add wrappers or pipes to commands unless the user explicitly asks.
- Prefer repository-standard scripts/commands (package.json scripts, README instructions).
- Reproduce reported command issues by running the same command (or closest equivalent) before proposing fixes.
- Avoid interactive git prompts by using --no-edit or setting GIT_EDITOR=true.
- If elevated privileges are required, use sudo where available; otherwise run as Administrator.
- Keep changes scoped to affected repositories; when shared modules change, update consumers and verify at least one.
- If no branch is specified, work on the current branch; direct commits to main/master are allowed.
- After addressing PR review feedback, resolve the corresponding review thread(s) before concluding; if you lack permission, state it explicitly.
- Before re-requesting review after addressing feedback, run the relevant verification suite and summarize results (commands + outcomes) in the PR comment/description.
- After pushing fixes for PR review feedback, re-request review only from reviewer(s) who posted the addressed feedback in the current round.
- Do not re-request review from reviewers (including AI reviewers) who did not post addressed feedback, or who already indicated no actionable issues.
- If no applicable reviewer remains, ask who should review next.
- When Codex and/or Copilot review bots are configured for the repo, trigger re-review only for the bot(s) that posted addressed feedback.
- For Codex re-review (only when applicable): comment `@codex review` on the PR.
- For Copilot re-review (only when applicable): use `gh api` to remove+re-request the bot reviewer `copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]` (do not rely on `gh pr edit --add-reviewer Copilot`).
  - Remove: `gh api --method DELETE /repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr}/requested_reviewers -f "reviewers[]=copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]"`
  - Add: `gh api --method POST /repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr}/requested_reviewers -f "reviewers[]=copilot-pull-request-reviewer[bot]"`
- After completing a PR, merge it, sync the target branch, and delete the PR branch locally and remotely.
- Agent platforms have different execution capabilities (sandboxing, network access, push permissions). Do not assume capabilities beyond what the current platform provides; fail explicitly when a required capability is unavailable.
- When handling GitHub notifications, use `DELETE /notifications/threads/{id}` (HTTP 204) to mark them as **done** (removes from inbox/moves to Done tab). Do NOT use `PATCH /notifications/threads/{id}` (marks as read but leaves in inbox). After processing notifications, bulk-delete any remaining read-but-not-done notifications with the same DELETE API.
